README.md, before:

<img src="Media/header.png?raw=true" alt="Native WebSocket" />

This is the simplest and easiest WebSocket library for Unity you can find!

- No external DLL's required (uses built-in `System.Net.WebSockets`)
- WebGL/HTML5 support
- Supports all major build targets
- Very simple API

> This WebSocket client is used on [colyseus-unity3d](https://github.com/colyseus/colyseus-unity3d). <br />
> Consider supporting my work on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/endel). <br />
> [![Support me on Patreon](https://img.shields.io/endpoint.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Fshieldsio-patreon.vercel.app%2Fapi%3Fusername%3Dendel%26type%3Dpatrons&style=for-the-badge)](https://patreon.com/endel)

## Installation

*Requires Unity 2019.1+ with .NET 4.x+ Runtime*

### Install via UPM (Unity Package Manager)
1. Open Unity
2. Open Package Manager Window
3. Click Add Package From Git URL
4. Enter URL: ```https://github.com/endel/NativeWebSocket.git#upm```

### Install manually
1. [Download this project](https://github.com/endel/NativeWebSocket/archive/master.zip)
2. Copy the sources from `NativeWebSocket/Assets/WebSocket` into your `Assets` directory.

## Usage

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using UnityEngine;

using NativeWebSocket;

public class Connection : MonoBehaviour
{
  WebSocket websocket;

  // Start is called before the first frame update
  async void Start()
  {
    websocket = new WebSocket("ws://localhost:2567");

    websocket.OnOpen += () =>
    {
      Debug.Log("Connection open!");
    };

    websocket.OnError += (e) =>
    {
      Debug.Log("Error! " + e);
    };

    websocket.OnClose += (e) =>
    {
      Debug.Log("Connection closed!");
    };

    websocket.OnMessage += (bytes) =>
    {
      Debug.Log("OnMessage!");
      Debug.Log(bytes);

      // getting the message as a string
      // var message = System.Text.Encoding.UTF8.GetString(bytes);
      // Debug.Log("OnMessage! " + message);
    };

    // Keep sending messages at every 0.3s
    InvokeRepeating("SendWebSocketMessage", 0.0f, 0.3f);

    // waiting for messages
    await websocket.Connect();
  }

  void Update()
  {
    #if !UNITY_WEBGL || UNITY_EDITOR
      websocket.DispatchMessageQueue();
    #endif
  }

  async void SendWebSocketMessage()
  {
    if (websocket.State == WebSocketState.Open)
    {
      // Sending bytes
      await websocket.Send(new byte[] { 10, 20, 30 });

      // Sending plain text
      await websocket.SendText("plain text message");
    }
  }

  private async void OnApplicationQuit()
  {
    await websocket.Close();
  }

}
```

# Demonstration

**1.** Start the local WebSocket server:

```
cd Server
npm install
npm start
```

**2.** Open the `NativeWebSocket/Assets/WebSocketExample/WebSocketExampleScene.unity` on Unity and Run.


## Acknowledgements

Big thanks to [Jiri Hybek](https://github.com/jirihybek/unity-websocket-webgl).
This implementation is based on his work.

## License

Apache 2.0

Commit message:

Make it work with Glitch.com
This modified branch enables the repo to work with a server hosted on Glitch.com. Tested with Unity 2021.2.8f1

Co-Authored-By: Ryan Yang <rqyang@uci.edu>

README.md, after:

This is a modified branch on my fork of [endel/NativeWebSocket](https://github.com/endel/NativeWebSocket) to work with Glitch.com

After making the Glitch.com project from this repo, open the project's terminal and run:
```
npm install
```
and then
```
refresh
```
**This only needs to be done when you create the project or add packages. Do not run `npm start` as Glitch will already be running the server automatically. Instead of the terminal, the server's `console.log` output will show up in the Glitch project's logs.**
*These modifications successfully worked with Unity 2021.2.8f1. It will probably work on other versions but I didn't test it.*

<img src="Media/header.png?raw=true" alt="Native WebSocket" />

This is the simplest and easiest WebSocket library for Unity you can find!

- No external DLL's required (uses built-in `System.Net.WebSockets`)
- WebGL/HTML5 support
- Supports all major build targets
- Very simple API

> This WebSocket client is used on [colyseus-unity3d](https://github.com/colyseus/colyseus-unity3d). <br />
> Consider supporting my work on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/endel). <br />
> [![Support me on Patreon](https://img.shields.io/endpoint.svg?url=https%3A%2F%2Fshieldsio-patreon.vercel.app%2Fapi%3Fusername%3Dendel%26type%3Dpatrons&style=for-the-badge)](https://patreon.com/endel)

## Installation

*Requires Unity 2019.1+ with .NET 4.x+ Runtime*

### Install via UPM (Unity Package Manager)
1. Open Unity
2. Open Package Manager Window
3. Click Add Package From Git URL
4. Enter URL: ```https://github.com/endel/NativeWebSocket.git#upm```

### Install manually
1. [Download this project](https://github.com/endel/NativeWebSocket/archive/master.zip)
2. Copy the sources from `NativeWebSocket/Assets/WebSocket` into your `Assets` directory.

## Usage

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using UnityEngine;

using NativeWebSocket;

public class Connection : MonoBehaviour
{
  WebSocket websocket;

  // Start is called before the first frame update
  async void Start()
  {
    websocket = new WebSocket("ws://localhost:2567");

    websocket.OnOpen += () =>
    {
      Debug.Log("Connection open!");
    };

    websocket.OnError += (e) =>
    {
      Debug.Log("Error! " + e);
    };

    websocket.OnClose += (e) =>
    {
      Debug.Log("Connection closed!");
    };

    websocket.OnMessage += (bytes) =>
    {
      Debug.Log("OnMessage!");
      Debug.Log(bytes);

      // getting the message as a string
      // var message = System.Text.Encoding.UTF8.GetString(bytes);
      // Debug.Log("OnMessage! " + message);
    };

    // Keep sending messages at every 0.3s
    InvokeRepeating("SendWebSocketMessage", 0.0f, 0.3f);

    // waiting for messages
    await websocket.Connect();
  }

  void Update()
  {
    #if !UNITY_WEBGL || UNITY_EDITOR
      websocket.DispatchMessageQueue();
    #endif
  }

  async void SendWebSocketMessage()
  {
    if (websocket.State == WebSocketState.Open)
    {
      // Sending bytes
      await websocket.Send(new byte[] { 10, 20, 30 });

      // Sending plain text
      await websocket.SendText("plain text message");
    }
  }

  private async void OnApplicationQuit()
  {
    await websocket.Close();
  }

}
```

# Demonstration

**1.** Start the local WebSocket server:

```
cd Server
npm install
npm start
```

**2.** Open the `NativeWebSocket/Assets/WebSocketExample/WebSocketExampleScene.unity` on Unity and Run.


## Acknowledgements

Big thanks to [Jiri Hybek](https://github.com/jirihybek/unity-websocket-webgl).
This implementation is based on his work.

## License

Apache 2.0
